Faster R-CNN is a single-stage model that is trained end-to-end. It uses a novel region proposal network (RPN) for generating region proposals, which save time compared to traditional algorithms like Selective Search. It uses the ROI Pooling layer to extract a fixed-length feature vector from each region proposal.
The Faster R-CNN is jointly trained with 4 losses: RPN classification (Object foreground/background) RPN regresssion (Anchor → ROI) Fast RCNN Classification (object classes).
The network does not look at the complete image in one go, but focuses on parts of the image sequentially. This creates two complications: The algorithm requires many passes through a single image to extract all the objects.
A Region Proposal Network, or RPN, is a fully convolutional network that simultaneously predicts object bounds and objectness scores at each position. The RPN is trained end-to-end to generate high-quality region proposals.
ROI pooling solves the problem of fixed image size requirement for object detection network. ROI pooling produces the fixed-size feature maps from non-uniform inputs by doing max-pooling on the inputs. The number of output channels is equal to the number of input channels for this layer.
Fully Convolutional Networks, or FCNs, are an architecture used mainly for semantic segmentation. They employ solely locally connected layers, such as convolution, pooling and upsampling. Avoiding the use of dense layers means less parameters (making the networks faster to train).
Anchor boxes are a set of predefined bounding boxes of a certain height and width. These boxes are defined to capture the scale and aspect ratio of specific object classes you want to detect and are typically chosen based on object sizes in your training datasets.
SSD has two components: a backbone model and SSD head. Backbone model usually is a pre-trained image classification network as a feature extractor. This is typically a network like ResNet trained on ImageNet from which the final fully connected classification layer has been removed.
SSD has two components: a backbone model and SSD head. Backbone model usually is a pre-trained image classification network as a feature extractor. This is typically a network like ResNet trained on ImageNet from which the final fully connected classification layer has been removed.
The MSCNN consists of a proposal sub-network and a detection sub-network. In the proposal sub-network, detection is performed at multiple output layers, so that receptive fields match objects of different scales. These complementary scale-specific detectors are combined to produce a strong multi-scale object detector.
The idea of Dilated Convolution is come from the wavelet decomposition . It is also called “atrous convolution”, “algorithme à trous” and “hole algorithm”. Thus, any ideas from the past are still useful if we can turn them into the deep learning framework.
